Color system best practices Skip to main content Apps Storefronts Agents References Changelog Ask assistant / Help • Log in Storefronts Overview Themes Web API / Headless Mobile Collapse sidebar Getting started Overview Quick start Developer preview Key concepts Architecture Limits Layouts Templates Sections Section groups Blocks Snippets Settings Config Locales Best practices Overview Sections and blocks Java Script and stylesheet tags Events and actions Performance Accessibility Theme editor Design Merchant stores Version control File transformation Deceptive code Developer Tools Overview CLI Git Hub integration VS Code extension Prettier plugin Liquid Doc Theme Check Theme editor Code editor Theme Access app Dev stores Collaborator accounts Theme Inspector Lighthouse CI Theme features Overview Integrating apps Product merchandising Pricing and payments Delivery and fulfillment Customer engagement Markets Site navigation and search SEO Trust and security Migrating to Online Store 2. 0 Sign-in redirects Troubleshooting Sell themes Theme Store Full index Expand On this page Color palettes Local color overrides Hardcoded colors
Color system best practices Install AI Toolkit Ask about this page Copy MD One of the most important components of designing a visually appealing, functional, and accessible theme is color. A well-designed color system reinforces a merchant&#x27;s branding and directs the user&#x27;s experience. When designing the color system for your theme, consider both the overall look and feel, and the interplay between elements. There should be an established hierarchy between elements. For example, emphasize a call-to-action, and provide adequate color contrast between foreground and background elements. This sets merchants up for success by providing accessible experiences for their customers.
Anchor to Color palettes Color palettes A color_palette is a global set of named colors defined once in settings_schema.json . Merchants see these colors in a grid in the theme editor and can pick from them when adjusting any color or color_background setting. You can define between 2 and 20 colors. Palettes work well when you want merchants to stay within a defined brand color set. Instead of typing hex values into individual pickers, merchants choose from the colors you&#x27;ve defined. The palette is available everywhere in the theme: sections, blocks, and global settings alike. Anchor to When to use a palette When to use a palette Use a color palette when your theme has a small set of brand colors that should be consistent across the store. Sections and blocks can reference palette colors as their defaults using the {{ settings.colors.key }} syntax. When a merchant updates a palette color, every setting that references it updates automatically. A palette gives merchants a single place to manage their brand colors and removes the need to understand how grouped color relationships work. Anchor to Palette design tips Palette design tips
Start with a small palette. Include only the colors your theme needs rather than a large set of generic options. Merchants can add their own colors in the editor.
Choose key names that reflect usage, not appearance. Names like primary , accent , and text are clearer than blue or dark , because the actual color values will change.
Use palette references for section and block color defaults. This ties individual settings to the palette, so a single change propagates across the theme.
For the schema reference, see color_palette .
Anchor to Local color overrides Local color overrides A color setting without a default value lets merchants set a one-off color for a specific section or block. When unset, the setting returns blank in Liquid and the editor shows a Clear option. Use this pattern when you want merchants to deviate from the palette for individual elements without changing the overall theme. Example : A hero banner section might offer a heading_color override with no default. The theme&#x27;s CSS or Liquid handles the fallback: sections/hero-banner.liquid Copy 1 2 3 {% if section . settings . heading_color != blank %} --heading-color: {{ section . settings . heading_color }} ; {% endif %} This approach pairs well with palettes. The palette sets the baseline, and local overrides let merchants make targeted adjustments.
Anchor to Hardcoded colors Hardcoded colors You can use hardcoded colors, but you shouldn&#x27;t apply hardcoded colors to elements that require an accessible contrast ratio.
Was this page helpful? Yes No Color palettes Local color overrides Hardcoded colors Updates Developer changelog Shopify Editions Business growth Shopify Partners Program Shopify App Store Shopify Academy Legal Terms of service API terms of use Privacy policy Partners Program Agreement Shopify About Shopify Shopify Plus Careers Investors Press and media