Config Skip to main content Apps Storefronts Agents References Changelog Ask assistant / Help • Log in Storefronts Overview Themes Web API / Headless Mobile Collapse sidebar Getting started Overview Quick start Developer preview Key concepts Architecture Limits Layouts Templates Sections Section groups Blocks Snippets Settings Config Locales Best practices Overview Sections and blocks Java Script and stylesheet tags Events and actions Performance Accessibility Theme editor Design Merchant stores Version control File transformation Deceptive code Developer Tools Overview CLI Git Hub integration VS Code extension Prettier plugin Liquid Doc Theme Check Theme editor Code editor Theme Access app Dev stores Collaborator accounts Theme Inspector Lighthouse CI Theme features Overview Integrating apps Product merchandising Pricing and payments Delivery and fulfillment Customer engagement Markets Site navigation and search SEO Trust and security Migrating to Online Store 2. 0 Sign-in redirects Troubleshooting Sell themes Theme Store Full index Expand On this page Location Subtypes Usage
Config Install AI Toolkit Ask about this page Copy MD Config files define settings in the Theme settings area of the theme editor, as well as store their values. Theme settings are a good place to host general settings such as typography and color options. Theme settings can be accessed through the settings object . Tip You can also create settings for sections and blocks . These settings are defined as part of the parent section or block object, and appear in the theme editor with the associated object. Tip: You can also create settings for sections and blocks . These settings are defined as part of the parent section or block object, and appear in the theme editor with the associated object.
Anchor to Location Location Config files are located in the config directory of the theme. When the theme contains market-specific customizations, the markets.json file is present in this directory: Copy 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 └── theme ... ├── config | ├── settings_data.json | ├── settings_schema.json | └── markets.json └── locales
Anchor to Subtypes Subtypes There are up to three config files, each with their own schema and content: Type Description Required settings_schema.json Controls the organization and content of the Theme settings area of the theme editor. Yes settings_data.json Contains the saved values from the settings in settings_schema.json . Yes markets.json Sets the source of inheritance of market-specific theme customizations. No
Anchor to Usage Usage When working with config files, you should familiarize yourself with the following:
Setting types
Accessing settings
Theme metadata
Anchor to Setting types Setting types There are two categories of settings: Category Description Input settings Settings that can hold a value, and are configurable by app users. Sidebar settings Settings that can’t hold a value, and aren’t configurable by app users. They’re informational elements that can be used to provide detail and clarity for your input settings. Anchor to Access settings Access settings Theme settings can be accessed through the settings object . To learn more about the syntax and considerations, refer to Access settings . Anchor to Theme metadata Theme metadata You can add theme metadata to the Theme actions menu of the theme editor. This includes information like the theme name and version, where to find theme documentation, and theme developer contact details. To learn how to include this information in your theme, refer to Add theme metadata .
Was this page helpful? Yes No Location Subtypes Usage Updates Developer changelog Shopify Editions Business growth Shopify Partners Program Shopify App Store Shopify Academy Legal Terms of service API terms of use Privacy policy Partners Program Agreement Shopify About Shopify Shopify Plus Careers Investors Press and media