Liquid templates Skip to main content Apps Storefronts Agents References Changelog Ask assistant / Help • Log in Storefronts Overview Themes Web API / Headless Mobile Collapse sidebar Getting started Overview Quick start Developer preview Key concepts Architecture Limits Layouts Templates Sections Section groups Blocks Snippets Settings Config Locales Best practices Overview Sections and blocks Java Script and stylesheet tags Events and actions Performance Accessibility Theme editor Design Merchant stores Version control File transformation Deceptive code Developer Tools Overview CLI Git Hub integration VS Code extension Prettier plugin Liquid Doc Theme Check Theme editor Code editor Theme Access app Dev stores Collaborator accounts Theme Inspector Lighthouse CI Theme features Overview Integrating apps Product merchandising Pricing and payments Delivery and fulfillment Customer engagement Markets Site navigation and search SEO Trust and security Migrating to Online Store 2. 0 Sign-in redirects Troubleshooting Sell themes Theme Store Full index Expand On this page Schema Content
Liquid templates Install AI Toolkit Ask about this page Copy MD Liquid templates allow you to control the look and feel of different pages of the online store. They cannot be used with sections . You must use JSON templates to use sections. One of the main use cases for Liquid templates is to have different layouts for different product pages. You can assign specific templates to specific products to achieve different looks and show different features. For example, all apparel products might have different templates which will have its own combinations of settings, sections and blocks.
Anchor to Schema Schema A Liquid template doesn&#x27;t have a fixed schema.
Anchor to Content Content A Liquid template accepts standard HTML and Liquid. Liquid templates can access any global Liquid objects , as well as the object that&#x27;s associated with the template. For more information, refer to the documentation for each template type .
Was this page helpful? Yes No Schema Content Updates Developer changelog Shopify Editions Business growth Shopify Partners Program Shopify App Store Shopify Academy Legal Terms of service API terms of use Privacy policy Partners Program Agreement Shopify About Shopify Shopify Plus Careers Investors Press and media