Building with sections and blocks Skip to main content Apps Storefronts Agents References Changelog Ask assistant / Help • Log in Storefronts Overview Themes Web API / Headless Mobile Collapse sidebar Getting started Overview Quick start Developer preview Key concepts Architecture Limits Layouts Templates Sections Section groups Blocks Snippets Settings Config Locales Best practices Overview Sections and blocks Java Script and stylesheet tags Events and actions Performance Accessibility Theme editor Design Merchant stores Version control File transformation Deceptive code Developer Tools Overview CLI Git Hub integration VS Code extension Prettier plugin Liquid Doc Theme Check Theme editor Code editor Theme Access app Dev stores Collaborator accounts Theme Inspector Lighthouse CI Theme features Overview Integrating apps Product merchandising Pricing and payments Delivery and fulfillment Customer engagement Markets Site navigation and search SEO Trust and security Migrating to Online Store 2. 0 Sign-in redirects Troubleshooting Sell themes Theme Store Full index Expand On this page Sections Blocks Theme settings
Building with sections and blocks Install AI Toolkit Ask about this page Copy MD When you&#x27;re designing a theme, you should consider when to provide functionality in a section or a block. Sections and blocks are modular components that give merchants the opportunity to customize and extend their theme. Merchants can add and remove sections and theme blocks, adjust section and block settings, and introduce app blocks and metafields . These guidelines apply to Online Store 2.0 themes, which use JSON templates and section groups . You can&#x27;t add or remove static sections from Liquid templates or layouts.
Anchor to Sections Sections Sections are available on all pages. When building theme templates, you should ensure that your template&#x27;s default content is available in a main template section, and that sections can be added, removed, and reordered. You can use sections to do the following:
To add, remove, or reorder content at the template or section group level
To control theme settings that are scoped to the entire section&#x27;s layout and content
Anchor to Blocks Blocks You should provide blocks to add, remove, or reorder content at the section level, or when it enhances the usability of a section. Keep the following principles in mind when developing blocks:
Ensure that the theme settings are scoped to the block.
Choose a block layout that is appropriate for the content, and ensure that your blocks flow logically regardless of block type or sequence.
Select an appropriate flexibility level to introduce using blocks.
Anchor to Block layouts Block layouts When designing the grid layout for your section, ensure that your blocks follow a logical and intuitive reading flow regardless of the block types and block sequence. Consider the following when determining how blocks should flow in a section:
Stack blocks vertically for text-based content that requires hierarchy.
If you don&#x27;t need to show hierarchy, then either stack blocks horizontally or create a grid that adapts to the block types that are available in the section.
When stacking blocks horizontally, either ensure that the section grid can wrap on several lines or offer horizontal sliding controls to maintain a comfortable block width. Ensure your section grid is responsive and that blocks can reflow depending on screen size.
Don&#x27;t rely on a specific block type or sequence to design a layout, and don&#x27;t use a specific block order to change the grid layout.
Anchor to Blocks and flexibility Blocks and flexibility To balance simplicity and flexibility, you should carefully consider when to add blocks and what each block should contain. Too many blocks creates clutter and complexity. You can use the following principles to understand how to define your blocks.
Group settings into blocks to simplify the editing experience and declutter the editor sidebar. For example, you can nest theme settings to customize an image block inside of the block.
When elements follow a specific hierarchy, group elements together and optionally allow block insertion points before and after. For example, you might create a single block that controls cart page line items.
Avoid providing blocks that are too granular. Granularity adds complexity to the theme code and to the merchant editing experience. For example, you should group the author, date, and comments into a single block or into settings, rather than introducing these attributes as three separate blocks.
Anchor to Considerations for app blocks Considerations for app blocks Merchants can add app-provided blocks to their themes. As a theme developer, you need to add support for these types of blocks to your sections. Consider the following when deciding whether to support app blocks in a section:
Provide app blocks in sections that have clear use cases for layering additional conversion tools, or purchase decision factors. For example, you might want to include an app block with the product information on the product page, or in the cart template.
Always consider antifragility and the section&#x27;s purpose when considering extending a theme using app blocks. Would the layout break easily when inserting unexpected block types? Would it require adding edge-case CSS styles to handle those blocks? Would it make the section&#x27;s purpose vague, or inconsistent? If the answer is yes to these questions, then avoid app blocks.
Anchor to Theme settings Theme settings Use theme settings to provide different look and feel options. Theme settings can be applied at the section, block, and theme levels. Anchor to Metafields Metafields Shopify provides various standard metafields that can fit your target segment. Review what&#x27;s available and consider which use cases make sense for the theme. For example, you might include either sections or blocks for a care guide or size chart metafield. These metafields, when referenced as dynamic sources , update to reflect their context, such as the product that is being rendered. When building metafields into your theme, consider building specific blocks for metafields. You can also audit ecommerce websites for your target segment, and analyze how content is presented to identify opportunities to design specific components. For example, you might want to use metafields to create a well-formatted information list for electronic products, or to add information about a coffee blend and origin.
Was this page helpful? Yes No Sections Blocks Theme settings Updates Developer changelog Shopify Editions Business growth Shopify Partners Program Shopify App Store Shopify Academy Legal Terms of service API terms of use Privacy policy Partners Program Agreement Shopify About Shopify Shopify Plus Careers Investors Press and media