Templates Skip to main content Apps Storefronts Agents References Changelog Ask assistant / Help • Log in Storefronts Overview Themes Web API / Headless Mobile Collapse sidebar Getting started Overview Quick start Developer preview Key concepts Architecture Limits Layouts Templates Sections Section groups Blocks Snippets Settings Config Locales Best practices Overview Sections and blocks Java Script and stylesheet tags Events and actions Performance Accessibility Theme editor Design Merchant stores Version control File transformation Deceptive code Developer Tools Overview CLI Git Hub integration VS Code extension Prettier plugin Liquid Doc Theme Check Theme editor Code editor Theme Access app Dev stores Collaborator accounts Theme Inspector Lighthouse CI Theme features Overview Integrating apps Product merchandising Pricing and payments Delivery and fulfillment Customer engagement Markets Site navigation and search SEO Trust and security Migrating to Online Store 2. 0 Sign-in redirects Troubleshooting Sell themes Theme Store Full index Expand On this page JSON vs. Liquid Template types Location Content
Templates Install AI Toolkit Ask about this page Copy MD Templates control what&#x27;s rendered on each type of page in a theme. Each page type in an online store has an associated template type. You can use the template to add functionality that makes sense for the page type. For example, to render a product page, the theme needs at least one template of type product . Similarly, to render a metaobject page, the theme needs at least one template of type metaobject/{metaobject-type} , for example: metaobject/book or metaobject/author , depending on the type of metaobject definition. You can create multiple versions of the same template type to create custom templates for different use cases. For example, you can create a separate product template for outerwear products, or a separate page template for pages with video content. Templates control what is rendered on each type of page in a theme.
Anchor to JSON vs. Liquid JSON vs. Liquid There are two different file types you can use for a theme template: JSON and Liquid. These template file types can be used to build multiple template types , each of which represents a type of content in a merchant&#x27;s online store. Type Description JSON JSON templates are data files with the .json file extension. These templates let you easily populate your template with content from sections . Sections can be added, removed, or rearranged by merchants using the theme editor. If you&#x27;re using a JSON template, then any HTML or Liquid code needs to be included in a section that&#x27;s referenced by the template. To learn more, refer to JSON templates . Liquid Liquid templates are Liquid markup files, with the .liquid file extension. You can add Liquid and HTML directly to Liquid templates. To learn more, refer to Liquid templates . Anchor to Choosing JSON vs Liquid Choosing JSON vs Liquid If you want to use sections in a template, then you should use a JSON template. JSON templates provide more flexibility for merchants to add, remove, and reorder sections, including app sections. Additionally, they minimize the amount of data in settings_data.json . Instead, data is stored directly in the template, which improves the performance of the theme editor.
Anchor to Template types Template types Each available template type represents a type of content in a merchant&#x27;s online store. No template types are required. However, you must have a matching template for any page type that you want to render. For example, to render a product page, you need at least one template of type product . You can have a maximum of 1000 JSON templates in your theme, across all template types. For example, if you have 20 JSON product templates, 10 JSON page templates, and 5 JSON collection templates, then you can add up to 965 additional templates to the theme. You can use the following template types in your theme. To learn more about each template type, click on the template name. Type Description 404 Renders page content that is shown to customers if they enter an invalid URL for the store. agents.md.liquid Renders the agents.md file, which is hosted at the /agents.md URL. This file is the canonical, agent-facing description of the store, telling AI agents how to discover and transact with it. This must be a Liquid template. article Renders the article page, which contains the full content of the article, as well as an optional comments section for customers. This template is used for items like individual posts in a blog. blog Renders the blog page, which lists all articles within a blog. cart Renders the /cart page, which provides an overview of the contents of a customer’s cart. collection Renders the collection page, which lists all products within a collection. gift_card.liquid Renders the gift card page, which displays the gift card issued to a customer upon purchase. This must be a Liquid template. index Renders the home page of the store, located at the root URL ( / ). list-collections Renders the collection list page, which lists all the store&#x27;s collections. This page is located at the /collections URL of the store. llms-full.txt.liquid Renders the llms-full.txt file, hosted at the /llms-full.txt URL. An alternate agent-discovery URL that mirrors /agents.md by default. This must be a Liquid template. llms.txt.liquid Renders the llms.txt file, hosted at the /llms.txt URL. An alternate agent-discovery URL that mirrors /agents.md by default. This must be a Liquid template. page Renders the shop’s pages, such as About us and Contact us . password Renders the /password page, which is a landing page shown when you add password protection to your online store . This page includes a message that is editable by merchants, and the password form for customers to gain access to the store. product Renders the product page, which contains a product&#x27;s media and content, as well as a form for customers to select a variant and add it to the cart. robots.txt.liquid Renders the robots.txt file, which is hosted at the /robots.txt URL. This file tells search engines which pages can, or can&#x27;t, be crawled on a site. This must be a Liquid template. search Renders the /search page, which displays the results of a storefront search . metaobject Renders metaobject pages, such as “artists” or “authors”. To render each metaobject entry as an individual page, the metaobject definition must have the web page capability. Note The gift_card , robots.txt , agents.md , llms.txt , and llms-full.txt templates can&#x27;t be JSON templates, so you must make them Liquid templates. Other template types support either template file type. Note: The gift_card , robots.txt , agents.md , llms.txt , and llms-full.txt templates can&#x27;t be JSON templates, so you must make them Liquid templates. Other template types support either template file type. Anchor to Legacy customer account templates Legacy customer account templates Legacy customer account templates are deprecated. Customer accounts now operate independently of themes, and the following templates no longer need to be included in your theme:
customers/account
customers/activate_account
customers/login
customers/order
customers/register
customers/reset_password
customers/addresses
Publishing a theme without these templates automatically upgrades merchants to the latest customer accounts experience, which operates independently of themes. Learn more about customer accounts . Instead, add the <shopify-account> component to your theme header so customers can sign in without leaving the storefront, or navigate to account pages. It&#x27;s fully integrated with customer accounts and offers styling controls to match your theme.
Anchor to Location Location Template files are located in the templates directory of the theme: Copy 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 └── theme ├── layout ├── templates | ├── 404.json | ├── article.json | ... ...
Anchor to Content Content The content that you can include in a template depends on whether it is a JSON template or a Liquid template. You should always keep the goal of the template type in mind when deciding what content you want to include in a template. For example, a product template, or a section in the product template, should always include the product object , which renders product details, and the product form tag , which lets customers add a product variant to the cart. Depending on your template type and approach, you might want to include these items in a section that you reference in the template.
Was this page helpful? Yes No JSON vs. Liquid Template types Location Content Updates Developer changelog Shopify Editions Business growth Shopify Partners Program Shopify App Store Shopify Academy Legal Terms of service API terms of use Privacy policy Partners Program Agreement Shopify About Shopify Shopify Plus Careers Investors Press and media